# Thank You GitHub ❤

In the spirit of making this blog stand up as quickly as possible, I've decided
to leverage the free hosting provided by GitHub.  Blog posts will live on a repo
and may even be written using GitHub.com's editor. The blog will be public and
GitHub allows unlimited public hosting of public resources, the code will most
likely be hosted there too, so why not?  Having `git` baked right into your CMS
can't hurt either and as far as I know, there aren't any size limits (not that I
expect the content to be t0o large anyway).

I'll probably use the GitHub ReST API to both discover and collect blog content,
which will make it easier to cut over to an API of my own making later.  I've
been playing around with Facebook's ReactJS (Redux, too) and I'm quite 'smitten
with the neat separation that it offers. So the front end will be built using
that framework and will probably be the bulk of the work and content published
at first.

I find the documentation on the [Redux site](https://redux.js.org/) to be pretty
good and I'll probably be using those as my primary reference while designing.
Hit me up on Twitter [@kevdougful](https://twitter.com/kevdougful) if you'd like
to share your experience with React/Redux. I surely don't want to fall into the
same traps you may have. I really want to build the app from the start to work asynchronously; it leads to a more responsive user experience, is more fun to 
code, and is what all the cool kids are doing these days arent' they?  Plus, 
asynchronicity is not a word I ever get to use otherwise.

I'd like to also implement the new [error boundaries](https://reactjs.org/blog/2017/07/26/error-handling-in-react-16.html) concept
implemented in React 16.  This app is likely to be something that won't get big
chunks of my time (kids...you know...), so being able to quickly identify and 
fix bugs is essential.

For a while--and maybe forever--this blog will function as a kind of "notebook"
for me. These posts will be quick jots that happen to strike me from time to
time.  I'll try to periodically synthesize these into more cohesive pieces that
will not only help the reader understand my thinking but also force me form more
cohesive thoughts in the first place.
