# Ink on the Page

I worked through the [_basics_ tutorial](https://redux.js.org/docs/basics) and I 
mostly replicated the TodoList app they had there, but made it a PostList
instead, omitting the `FilterLink` and `Footer` components for simplicity. The
work can be found on GitHub for now, although I plan to use [this repo as the 
main repo](https://github.com/kevdougful/blog-ui) for the blog's front-end.  So 
this sort of sandbox learning will hopefully be buried under a mountain of
commits worth or "real" code.  The app is very simple, but I've found it rather
enlightening to learn new frameworks and languages from first-principles.  If I
don't have a grasp of the fundamentals from the start I will most certainly get
lost very quickly, even if I'm able to get something fancy up and running
quickly.  I think this is why I find React/Redux so appealing.  The approach is
light on boilerplate; it takes very few brushstrokes to paint a picture that
looks like something.

I also like to explain things out loud to myself (or someone else, ideally) and
try to listen to it and decide if it makes sense the way it comes off my toungue
(or keyboard).  So that's the purpose of this post.  Don't use this as a useful
explanation of React or Redux. While something you read here might help you--and
if it does that's great--I don't expect it to.  Seasoned developers need not
apply.  Like many of these early posts, this one is for me.  

So here goes:

React and Redux are separate entities that, while they are complementary, are
entirely sufficient to build an app on their own.  I'll be using React to make
and display `Component`s and Redux will be responsible for shuttling data to and
from them. Redux handles the state of the app and React just rides on top. React `Component`s house all their data in `props`. Redux uses reducers as the courier between the app's state and the `Component`s' `props`, with `actions` being the 
cargo. I plan to use `react-redux` to glue those two worlds together. Redux and 
React are glued together by `react-redux` mainly by the `connect` function,
which is supplied with two functions that map state and dispatch to `props`, 
respectively.  Dispatch is the Redux function that sends actions out in response
to something (usually caused by the user clicking a button, etc.) to be received
by a reducer.  The correct reducer then responds by updating state according to
information contained in the action.

React provides a way to short-circuit this paradigm for those cases where it 
would be rather difficult, say, if you needed to modify a DOM element directly
(instead of re-rendering with new props).  For this, we use `ref`.  In my simple
Blog app, I have a `<input>` that needs to pass a value from the textbox into 
React `Component`s.

```{js}
let AddPost = ({ dispatch }) => {
    let input

    return (
        ...
        <input ref={ node => {
            input = node // Pass the value up to the variable above
        }} />
        ...
    )
}
```

I changed the tutorial in the docs a bit more by changing the toggle behavior to
instead change the Post's `<p>` tag's style to `display: none` when `expanded`
is false, effectively hiding it.

```
<p style={{ display: expanded ? 'block', 'none' }}>
    { text }
</p>
```

I hope to continue this journey in small victories like this one.  Writing out
posts explaining to myself (and anyone who wants to listen) will help to
crystallize my understanding while the neurons are still fresh, purifying the
lesson down into the essential parts more potent for the next undertaking.
